Shakespeare? William was Who
years. few next the over children three had couple the and Hathaway, Anne married William 18, At 70s. and 1560s the in Stratford touring groups theatre traveling the by plays seen have also may He upbringing. Catholic a had have may and - rhetoric and theology Greek, Latin, learned have would he where school grammar Stratford reputable a - School New King's to went probably he but education, William's of records no are There farmer. wealthy a of daughter the Arden, Mary and dignitary, local and glover prosperous a Shakespeare, John of son eldest the Stratford-upon-Avon, in 1564 April 23 around or on born was He language. English the in writers greatest the of one as regarded widely is Shakespeare William
years'? 'lost Shakespeare's are What
theatre-goers. for horses holding playhouses London the at worked he that and deer-stealing for Warwickshire from exiled was Shakespeare that stories including years', 'lost these about speculation much is There London. in mentioned first is he when 1592 and - Stratford in youth his of record documentary last the - 1587 between did Shakespeare what knows No-one
write? Shakespeare did What
1609. in published first was which Sonnets of collection famous a and poems, 4 wrote also Shakespeare Macbeth. and Lear King Othello, Hamlet, are tragedies his among famous most The III. Richard and V Henry are plays history 10 his Among Nothing. About Ado Much and Venice of Merchant The include comedies 17 His more. several on collaborated and plays 37 least at wrote Shakespeare 1613, and 1590 about Between
lifetime? his in successful Shakespeare Was
Dream. Night's Midsummer A and III Richard Juliet, and Romeo including plays, 11 authored had he 1592 by that likely is it works, Shakespeare's of chronology the determine to difficult is it Although coin). small a being groat (a Wit of Groats-worth pamphlet his in do-it-all') 'Johnny (a Factotum' 'Johannes and crow' 'upstart an as Greene Robert rival jealous by criticized be to actor and writer a as enough well-known was Shakespeare 1592, By
Lucrece. of Rape The and Adonis and Venus time, this during poems epic two published Shakespeare plague. the of because shut were playhouses London the 1594, June to 1592 September from period the of much For
died. Hamnet, son old year 11 his 1596 in however: tragedy by untainted not was success This Stratford. in house largest second the Place, New buy to 1597 in him enabled successes His manuscript. in sequence sonnet his circulated and poems several published he plays, more writing as well as and occasions, numerous on Elizabeth Queen before performed who Men Chamberlain's Lord the of shareholder a became and joined He 1590s. the through grew success Shakespeare's
